# SmartCodeConversion0
unicode converter for Daniel Benjamin Fonts
DM used Arabic TTF fonts to create Syriac text by replacing all relevant glyphs appropriately. For the most part, there is one-to-one correspondence between Arabic and Syriac. Then these fonts used in Microsoft Word to compose Syriac text. This attempt pre-dated Unicode days, although users continued to use these fonts to create text in Word. This created a portability problem in that unless you have these fonts installed on your local system, you could not view thes documents and read the Syriac text. Hence the genesis of this conversion program. Each glyph in the converted font was assigned proper unicode for Syriac and the appropriate ligatures were de-constructed and mapped to their elemental codes. The character mapping is easy. The ligature was a bit of a challenge since liagted forms had unique implicit rules that I needed to unravel. DM also created short-cuts for commonly used words in Syriac and created glyphs for them. While it was creative and convenient for the users, it is a practice that is considered bad. So, the conversion engine has look-up tables. The implcit rules had to be inferred as more input was seen, sometimes 1, 2, or even 3 characters ahead before determing the actual mapping. I had implemented several version as I began develping this program, but the one that is the most general and more robust is using Finite State Automata (FAS) machine used as the lexical analyzer of the string of inputs.
The program assumes the following:
1) The Word document has to be saved as Unicode-text document 
2) In word document, any syriac word must be enclosed by '<' and '>' using simple regular expression (more on this later). The reason for this is that some documents has both Arabic and Syriac text and since the uderlying codes are the same, there no way to distingush the two. In other words, these serve as markers  
3) run the conversion on the resultant modified text. The program will only convert the marked up words.
The draw back of this approach is that all the formatting information is lost due to saving the document as text  prior to the conversion process. 

Future plan,
take this engine and create Office AddOn module such that all formatting information is retained. I just never got to it. Some prelimiary prototypes were created to select text only within Word using Office Automation tools (VSTO). 
